Hello and welcome to Professional Practice for Computer Scientists. I'm Dr. Sean McGrath and I'll be guiding you through this module which is designed to equip you with key professional skills that will enhance your future career in the tech industry. In this module we will focus on three main pillars that are crucial to succeeding in your career. Effective communication, ethical responsibility and continuous professional development. Whether you're working in a large tech company, a start-up or in research, these skills will be essential to your success. If you want to go on to postgraduate studies this will also be a useful module. So why is this module important? As computer scientists we're often focused on building systems, solving complex problems and writing code. While these are fundamental skills, the broader skill sets that employers and the tech industry look for go beyond technical expertise. The ability to communicate technical and non-technical concepts, work effectively in teams, manage projects and understand the ethical and legal implications of your work is equally important. This course will help you to develop these essential skills, giving you a competitive edge as you transition into the professional world. Let's take a look at what this module will cover. We'll start by sharpening your communication skills, both technical and non-technical. Whether you're writing technical documentation, speaking to a client or collaborating with your team, effective communication is the foundation for successful project management and problem solving. We'll cover written, verbal and visual communication techniques that will help you to convey complex ideas clearly. I'll talk about some of my own research that takes complicated design and technical constructs and turns them into something accessible and hopefully readable to wide audiences. Next, we dive into the ethical, legal and sustainability issues that affect the field of computing. As technology continues to evolve rapidly, it's crucial to understand how your work can impact society. From data privacy to environmental sustainability, we'll explore how to approach your work responsibly using case studies and real world examples. A lot of this stuff is very contentious and subjective, a little different to what we're used to when designing algorithms and calculating efficient paths between objects. Still, with the world changing so quickly, it is important that we can point our ethical compasses in the right direction. In the tech industry, collaboration is key. We'll explore effective teamwork strategies, focusing on how to collaborate in diverse teams with varying technical skill sets. We'll also discuss project management techniques, including agile methodologies that are widely used in the industry today. There are lots of techniques that work here. I'll introduce some of the ideas and theories behind agile, and you will think about how you might apply those techniques, for example, to manage a project like your final year project. Finally, we will guide you through the process of planning your career and embracing lifelong learning. The tech industry is always changing and staying up to date is essential. We'll help you map out your professional development and set goals for continuous improvement. We're very lucky to be supported by industry partners and the careers team at University of London to deliver interviews and advice from people in a wide variety of roles. By the end of this module, you will have gained strong communication skills. You'll be able to communicate complex technical concepts to both technical and non-technical audiences. This includes improving your writing for reports and technical documentation, speaking confidently and creating impactful visual aids like diagrams and presentations. This will help with everything from writing exam answers to pitching a business idea. Understanding of ethical and legal principles in computing. You'll be able to identify ethical issues, legal concerns and sustainability challenges in the computing industry. This includes areas like data privacy, intellectual property and the environmental impact of technology. Project management and teamwork abilities. You'll learn to collaborate effectively in diverse teams and manage projects with industry standard methodologies. This will include best practice in task prioritisation, communication within teams and conflict resolution. Career development strategies. Finally, you'll be better prepared to plan your career in computer science. You'll create a personal development plan that includes goals for continuous learning, professional certifications and industry engagement. The module is structured into five main areas, each designed to build on the last. We'll set the foundations for the course and dive into the importance of professional practice in the field of computer science. We'll also look at communication skills, developing your written, verbal and visual communication skills for both technical and non-technical audiences. We'll consider ethical, legal and sustainability considerations. We will explore how to approach your work responsibly by understanding the legal and ethical implications of your actions. We'll also explore teamwork and project management. You'll learn to effectively manage projects and collaborate with others, ensuring successful outcomes in real world scenarios. Finally, we'll spend some time on career planning and lifelong learning. This will help you to reflect on your learning journey and plan your ongoing professional development. Each lesson is interactive and designed with activities, case studies and discussions to reinforce your learning. We will study a variety of topics within this module and you'll be doing a lot of reading and developing your own thoughts and ideas. Remember, this is a level five module, so the work steps up a bit from the introductory models you took at level four. Your assessment for this module will be made up of several components, which will include an opportunity for reflecting on your growth throughout this module. It might sound strange for a computer science module, but you'll need to develop your written and communication skills to help you with your assessment. Please check the module syllabus for further details. Throughout this module, you'll have access to a range of resources to support your learning, including video lectures and readings to help you understand key concepts. Mostly me, but you'll see industry partners and Liz Wilkinson, our senior careers consultant from the Career Service. Discussion forums, where you can engage with your peers and instructors. Please try to utilise these and don't just post a blank post to check it off. Engaging with your peers can allow you to explore topics in further depth, develop your critical thinking skills and improve your communication skills. The tutor forums for support from teaching staff. Career resources to help you develop your CV and prepare for job applications. Make sure to check the course syllabus for a detailed breakdown of assignments and deadlines. To wrap up, I want to emphasise that this module is designed not just to help you pass a course, but to prepare you for the professional world. The skills you'll learn here, communication, ethical responsibility, teamwork and lifelong learning are fundamental to your success as a computer scientist. I encourage you to take full advantage of the resources and activities and actively engage in the discussions and team projects. By the end of this module, you'll have a strong foundation to launch your career and grow as a professional in the ever evolving field of computing. The team at Goldsmiths and University of London want to see you succeed in the world as future leaders, innovators and engineers.