Hi. I'm Theo. Welcome to graphics programming. Stay tuned for a
fun introduction to computer graphics with
a creative twist. In the next few sessions, we're going to be playing
with simple physics engines. We're going to be looking into the building blocks of
generative art and design, as well as procedural
generation of graphics. We'll dive into image processing and make our own filters, and finally, we'll
bring it all together by looking at the somewhat magical field of computer vision. We're going to be coding
exciting visualizations using 3D primitives and
we are going to be interviewing top experts
in the field of graphics. First off, let me
introduce myself. I studied psychology, in
my undergraduate degree, but I soon developed a keen
interest in computing. So I went on to study for a master's and a PhD
in computer science specializing in
computer vision and its application to
3D face-recognition. After that, I was fortunate
enough to discover the amazing world of
creative computing and all these democratizing
technologies for artists that started to emerge
about 15 years ago. I began teaching
creative computing and I setup a creative
technology studio, where we use many of the techniques I will be
teaching you in the course. Fractals to generate the tree
structure in this video, noise to animate it procedurally, a physics engine to drive the interaction between
objects in the scene, and finally, simple
computer vision techniques, that we'll explore
in this course, to detect where the
performer is on stage, and feed that into
their projection system to make it all interactive. Throughout this course, I
will be live coding examples. You will benefit most from these if you also code in
parallel with me, stopping the video
when you need to in order to tweak or
debug your code, and then continuing
along with me. Don't worry if you lose
track of where you are, try to stay focused and
you can always download a worked version of
all examples I'll show this week from
the links provided. Before it's live coding example, a little square will appear here, showing you the name
of the program, the worked version of this. So after you try
live coding with me, you can always open up the worked version
and examine that. Learning to program can only
be achieved by writing code. So the more time you put into writing code, the
better you'll become. I'm also providing many fun short unassessed
programming exercises to help you get to grips
with various concepts and to enjoying yourself with the
skills you picked up in class. Then every week, you have to
do an assessed assignment, which you submit it
once for grading. We hope that with all these programming practice you'll get, you'll be a graphics
hacker in no time. The tool we're going
to use throughout the course is p5.js. That's great for teaching
introductory graphics topics. It allows you to easily
prototype things and get the quick
return on investment. Whether you want
to get into games, create generative art pieces, develop your own social
photo-sharing app, or program autonomous systems
using computer vision, the skills and concepts that you learned in this
course will be transferable to other
projects you work on irrespective of
the technology used. P5.js is a framework that is
free and open source and it is being actively developed by an ever-growing community
of contributors. So if you go to the
GitHub page of p5.js, this is where all the
action is happening. If you scroll down, you'll
see all the contributors have put in a little bit of work to make this project better. We won't be using
the p5.js that is on GitHub or even on
the p5.js website, please download the empty example we have provided for you. This ensures that we'll all
be using the same version of the library and there will not be any compatibility issues. The same goes for
all the libraries that we will be using later on. The way we're going to be using p5.js is via the Brackets editor, which you can download
for free as well. Bracket is itself an
open source project with code contributions from people from around the world. Now is the time to download and install Brackets if you
haven't already done so. In the next video, I'm going to remind you how to write a quick p5.js sketch to make sure that we're all
on the same page. Feel free to skip this
part of the video if you already know
how to set up p5.js, and use Brackets to
write a simple sketch.